greetings chess friends Ravi again and
I'm going to do a series of little short
videos primarily because I get very
tired doing longer videos and I begin to
lose my concentration
but I'm doing another series of little
videos on square strategy theory and
looking at weak colour complexes how we
can exploit them that we can a set them
up and create them I'm looking at the
dynamics of the PCs in regard to these
weak coloured complexes now all the
other positions we had prior to this in
square strategy TD the basics one there
was already a weak color complex on the
board and we had to identify it and look
for ways to exploit it however in this
medal game position there the challenge
is essentially to create a weak color
complex and will uses the principles of
square strategy theory in order to help
us identify potential weak color
complexes and we'll look for moves that
help us to create real weak color
complexes so please take a look at the
position look at it for as long as you
need and try to think of how we can
exploit the position in order to create
weak color complexes if you like to
pause the video do so now well hopefully
you paused the video and and you had
some time to think about this middle
game position when we look at the base
squares we can see that this square here
on f7 is particularly weak being
defended only by the King
of course our spider-sense goes off and
we then take a look at the entire d5
color complex and in doing so we can see
that not only is this week here but this
point here is defending these two very
important squares the e6 square and the
CC square and if we could find a way in
order to exchange this point off or make
it advance then we can see that this
entire color complex here would become
weak then knowing that can you think of
any candidate moves that would help us
to exchange off or make this pawn here
on c6 advance and of course the move is
six springs to mind challenging the pawn
immediately maybe black is a choice you
can either take this pawn and accept and
isolated and weak a seven pawn or he can
do as he does in the game and advance it
to b6 and immediately our spider-sense
goes off and we conceive that we have
created a weak color complex here in
terms of square strategy theory it is of
course an e4 strategy in the direction
of d5 white squares and we're going to
be whoops we're going to be seeking of
course to place our pcs on these white
squares and attack the squares of the
opposite color
No can you think of any candidate moves
that helps us to really take control of
this complex put pressure on this
complex occupy this complex of course
one of the first moves that springs to
mind is Bishop b5 taking control of the
cset square occupying the color complex
I'm preparing to infiltrate it and come
in to c6 itself like your castles and of
course we infiltrate the color complex
with our Bishop the rook is forced to
run away and now you can you think of
any other move that helps us to take
control pressure on or occupy this color
complex here of course there's a
beautiful move here Queen to d3 look at
that taking control of the b5 square the
e6 square defending the e4 complex in
our own camp black plays Knight to c8
probably trying to bring his knight in
here to c7 in order to challenge our
control of this complex and again we
want to occupy this color complex and of
course one of the moves that springs to
mind is Knight to b5 attacking the C
pawn occupying
the color complex and seeking to attack
the squares of the opposite color
like we'd like to swap it off but of
course there is no defense we simply
take the pawn on e7 and we will of
course plan to bring a knight back
advance this pawn and put real pressure
on blacks position so going back to the
starting position you had to look at the
d5 complex we saw that it was
particularly weak on it's pretty squares
and we only needed creative ways in
order for us to exploit that particular
complex and we saw that advancing the
pawn a sex did that upon advanced and
this entire color complex on the Queen
side became weak so hopefully you found
that beneficial I'm going to stop it
there otherwise I lose concentration and
I will do another one on how to create
weak colour complexes